---
layout: home
title: GREET - Generative Recombinant Enzyme Engineering for Therapeutics
---
Welcome to the homepage of the Generative Recombinant Enzyme Engineering for
Therapeutics (GREET) project funded by UKRI EPSRC fellowship to Dr Giovanni 
Stracquadanio. 

Our goal is to integrate machine learning, synthetic biology and lab automation
into a deployable platform for enzyme engineering and manufacturing. We believe
that the availability of an effective data-driven engineering platform will
overcome current limitations in enzyme engineering by learning design principles
directly from known enzyme sequences. Combining computational methods with
nanoliter-scale automated experimental platforms and high-yield microbial
expression systems will enable designing, building and testing enzymes currently
difficult to manufacture, such as those required for the treatment of enzymatic
deficiencies. Here we will focus at building the largest library of human
alpha-Galactosidase (aGAL) enzymes to identify new potential treatments for
Fabry's disease.

<!-- We are a multi-disciplinary research group based at the [School of Biological
Sciences](https://www.ed.ac.uk/biology) at the [University of
Edinburgh](https://www.ed.ac.uk/) interested in understanding the molecular
mechanisms underpinning complex phenotypes and diseases using two of the most
disruptive technologies available: synthetic biology and machine learning. Our
long term goal is to reverse-engineer biological systems to create generative
algorithms to design, build and test biological agents for addressing healthcare
and industrial biotechnology problems. Our group is extremely interdisciplinary
and includes members with engineering, biology and informatics background. -->