---
layout: default
title: Research
---

Enzymes are proteins catalysing almost all reactions required for cellular life
and, when defective, they can cause severe pathologies. For example, in humans,
alpha-galactosidase (a-GAL) deficiency, a condition affecting up to 1 in 3000
newborn known as Fabry's disease (FD), causes life threatening damage to heart
and kidneys. Since these diseases are usually caused by inherited genomic
mutations, they cannot be cured, but they can be treated using Enzyme
Replacement Therapies (ERTs), which consist of the injection of a recombinant
version of the affected enzymes into patients. Unfortunately, ERTs have
limitations; recombinant enzymes have lower enzymatic activity compared to the
human wild- type versions, are unstable in blood, are poorly absorbed by human
cells, and often trigger an immune response. Moreover, manufacturing therapeutic
enzymes is extremely expensive because standard mammalian cell-based expression
systems have low yield.

## Aims

Developing effective therapeutic enzymes requires design methods able to
discover new amino acid sequences that can encode the same catalytic function,
while optimising the therapeutic properties of the molecule. Then, these enzymes
must be converted into highly optimised DNA triplets, called codons, to maximise
expression and yield in host organisms that can grow in inexpensive media. With
the increasing incidence of enzymatic deficiencies and current treatments
costing up to Â£400K per year per patient, it is crucial to establish effective
methods to perform these tasks and implement a platform for effective and
sustainable production of therapeutic enzymes.

## Objectives

Here we aim at developing the computational and experimental methods required
for engineering and manufacturing designer enzymes. We will use deep generative
machine learning (ML) to design and codon optimise new enzymes, which will then
be rapidly built and tested at scale using the lab automation platform available
at the University of Edinburgh (UoE). As a proof of concept, we will build the
largest library of human a-GAL enzymes, to identify more effective therapeutic
enzymes for Fabry's disease.

